---
title: Linting
---

Linting within the extension is supported on the following:
* [Pylint](#pylint) (this is the default linter used)
* [Pep8](#pep8)
* [Flake8](#flake8)
* [pydocstyle](#pydocstyle)
* [prospector](#prospector)

### Paths
All samples provided here are for windows.   
However Mac/Linux paths are also supported.

Note: You could enable all of the above linters if necessary. Or just one or two of them.   
This can be achieved by enabling/disabling individual linters.

### Lint as you type   
Linting as you type can be enabled by turning on the 'auto save' feature in Visual Studio Code..  
Follow the instructions [here to turn on auto save](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/codebasics#_save-auto-save).

### Enable/Disable Linting
**By default linting is enabled and uses pylint.**    
If you wish to turn this off, you could do so either in the User Settings or the Workspace Settings file.   
Enabling/disabling could be done by configuring the following property in either one of (User or Workspace settings file) as follows:    
```json
"python.linting.enabled": true
```

**The extension will run the linter when ever a file is saved.**   
This can easily be turned off, once again either within the User or Workspace Settings files with the following configuration change:    
```json
"python.linting.lintOnSave": false
```
### Maximum number of messages
The default maximum number of messages displayed in Visual Studio Code is limited to 100.   
If this is to be altered, then change the following configuration settings either in the User or Workspace settings file:   
```json
"python.linting.maxNumberOfProblems": 50
```

### Pylint
As mentioned previously, this is the default linter used by the extension.    

**Installing Pylint**
For this to work properly ensure pylint is installed locally.    
You can easily install pylint as follows:    
```pip install pylint```

**Enabling/Disabling pylint**
If the pylint linter is not to be used by the extension, then disable it as follows either in the User or Workspace settings file:    
```json
"python.linting.pylintEnabled": false
```

**Custom Path**
This is generally unnecessary. As the Extension will resolve the path to the formatter based on Python executable being used or configured in python.pythonPath of settings.json. If this cannot be found, then the formatter will be resolved based on the current environment Path settings.

If this is not the case or you wish to use another version of pylint, all you need to do is configure the path as follows either in the User or Workspace settings file:    
```json
"python.linting.pylintPath": "c:/customPath/pylint.exe"
```

**Pylint Category Mapping**
Messages generated by pylint fall into the following categories:
* convention, refactor, warning, error, fatal   
Visual Studio Code supports the following categories in linting:   
* Hint, Error, Information, Warning
By default the extension maps pylint "convention" to "Hint", and so on.   
These mappings can be altered either in the User or Workspace settings files as follows:    
```json
"python.linting.pylintCategorySeverity.convention": "Information"
```

**Custom Configuration**
You can customize the linter by providing a configuration file for pylint and placing it in the necessary location.   
For instance you could place a pylintrc or .pylintrc file in the workspace folder.
For further details please refer [Pylint Command Line Options](https://docs.pylint.org/run.html)

**Pylint Plugins or custom arguments to PyLint**
Custom plugins such as pylint plugin for Django can be easily used by modifying the User or Workspace settings as follows:   
```json
"python.linting.pylintArgs": ["--load-plugins", "pylint_django"]
```

### Pep8
As mentioned previously, usage of this linter is turned off by the extension.    

**Installing Pep8**
For this to work properly ensure Pep8 is installed locally.    
You can easily install pep8 as follows:    
```pip install pep8```

**Enabling/Disabling pep8**
If the pep8 linter is to be used by the extension, then enable it as follows either in the User or Workspace settings file:    
```json
"python.linting.pep8Enabled": true
```

**Custom Path**
This is generally unnecessary. As the Extension will resolve the path to the formatter based on Python executable being used or configured in python.pythonPath of settings.json. If this cannot be found, then the formatter will be resolved based on the current environment Path settings.

If this is not the case or you wish to use another version of pep8, all you need to do is configure the path as follows either in the User or Workspace settings file:    
```json
"python.linting.pep8Path": "c:/customPath/pep8.exe"
```

**Custom Configuration**
The options are read from the [pep8] section of the tox.ini file or the setup.cfg file located in any parent folder of the path(s) being processed.   
For further details refer the following [Options](http://pep8.readthedocs.org/en/latest/intro.html).

### Flake8
As mentioned previously, usage of this linter is turned off by the extension.    

**Installing Flake8**
For this to work properly ensure Flake8 is installed locally.    
You can easily install flake8 as follows:    
```pip install flake8```

**Enabling/Disabling flake8**
If the flake8 linter is to be used by the extension, then enable it as follows either in the User or Workspace settings file:    
```json
"python.linting.flake8Enabled": true
```

**Custom Path**
This is generally unnecessary. As the Extension will resolve the path to the formatter based on Python executable being used or configured in python.pythonPath of settings.json. If this cannot be found, then the formatter will be resolved based on the current environment Path settings.

If this is not the case or you wish to use another version of pep8, all you need to do is configure the path as follows either in the User or Workspace settings file:    
```json
"python.linting.flake8Path": "c:/customPath/flake8.exe"
```

**Custom Configuration**
The user settings are read from the ~/.config/flake8 file (or the ~/.flake8 file on Windows).    
At the project level, a tox.ini file or a setup.cfg file is read if present. Only the first file is considered. If this file does not have a [flake8] section, no project specific configuration is loaded.   
For further details refer [Configuration](http://flake8.readthedocs.org/en/latest/config.html).